It's 3.30 and we have a flight to catch for Lukla in a couple of hours and this is our backpacks. And we will let you know in 16 days if everything what is in here was worth it to take it or that we forgot something or we got something more extra. Yeah, we will see, we will let you know in 16 days. So let's start the video. Welcome to Let's Meet Abroad, we are Adi and Mira. This year it was finally time to do one of our bucket list hikes, the Everest Base Camp Trek in Nepal. We decided to do this trek without any guide or porter. Are you planning to do this trek as well? Or are you planning any other multi-day trekking? Then keep watching, because we will share with you our ultimate packing list so that you can prepare yourself to the fullest for this beautiful but tough trek. So the first thing we're going to talk about is the most important thing if you're doing by yourself without any guide or porter, is the main backpack. And we both have a Gregory backpack, we really became in love with this brand. I tried so many backpacks, so many, and the Gregory one was just like, I put it on, I thought wow, yeah, this is the one. And same for Adi. Yeah, first time I saw this backpack and I just fell in love with it and like it's like when it's on your body, it just feels like a part of you and how the quality of the shoulder strap and the waist strap, it's just so good that, yeah, it's just makes your life so much easier. So Gregory, if you want to sponsor us. And then we go to another really important thing and that is of course the shoes. Oh yeah, the shoes. Shoes. Everyone on the trek had proper hiking shoes, like long hiking shoes will go over your ankle because many people say, oh, you can just wear sneakers. No, especially, I mean, yes, sneakers and sports shoes, like the running shoes, they are comfortable, but then when you go up higher, it's going to be so cold. And sometimes if you by mistake put your feet under in the water, you know, so that's why you need a proper hiking shoes, which is sort of weather resistant and kind of waterproof until some extent. And next to the, like the main hiking shoes, we also took some shoes for the evening because you don't want to walk all day in your shoes. And I will actually show you what I got. Yeah. I think it's too much orco. No, absolutely not. I took this down shoes. They're like super light white and you can make them all flat and they're like super warm and cozy and yeah, I really, really liked it that I took these and I just wear them all the time in the evening. Also when I went outside or so. And they're dirty. I will just throw them away. They were really cheap. Just 12 euros or so. You also have this Nordface ones who are like 40 euros. Just take the cheap ones. You use them like on the toilets and stuff. So you want to throw them away after your hike. And what I use, I'll show you. So what I use is just normal slippers and I'm still here, still alive without any frostbite. No. Yeah. But that doesn't work for me. Like my feet would freeze in slippers and that's, yeah, I don't like it when your socks are in the slippers. Yeah. Yeah. But you need something like next to your hiking shoes. And then the clothing. And we did so much research before a trek, like what should we take and what material should we take? And in the end, we were really happy with everything we took. Right? Yeah. Yeah. You want to start? Yeah, sure. So with clothing for the top, I took three Merino t-shirts, which I just got from Decathlon. So Merino t-shirts are something, Merino clothes are something which you wear throughout the day. And if you're sweaty, it's not going to stink the next day because I think the clothing material just kills bacteria itself and your body also wouldn't smell too bad. So you can wear the same t-shirt for at least like four to five days of hiking. For the top, I had three Merino t-shirt, two half t-shirt and one full long t-shirt. And I would say I could have just taken two, one half and one full and I would have still done the entire trek. So three would be a little bit overkill. And then for the base layer, I also took three full Merino wool base layer. And when it got really cold on the higher altitude, I was wearing a base layer and a t-shirt and my down jacket at like minus five, minus six degrees. When you are above Dingboche, when you go to Gorakh Shep, that's the most optimum you would be wearing. And in the evening at the tea houses, I would also wear my new fresh Merino wool base layer with my, what's it called? Fleece. With my fleece. Yeah. Again, I took three, but I think again, with just two base layer, one for outdoors and one for the evenings is more than enough. And you took also some pants. Oh yeah. I also took pants because it got pretty cold. So with the pants, I just had one like a normal hiking pants from Columbia, which could also, you can zip it out the lower half and make it a shorts. And I just wore that pants throughout the whole trek. And for the evening, I had a, like a, you know, the pajama, what you wear at home. I would recommend, like my pajama was a little bit big. It took a lot of space, but if you have something which is also good for cold and it doesn't take that much space, just take that. Do more research. It's going to be a bit expensive, but I just took the pajama, what I wear at home. And I also took a leggings because some days it would be really freezing in the morning when you are, when you're starting your hike. So what I was doing is I was wearing the leggings as my base layer. And I would wear the Columbia pants, the trekking pants on the top. And I also took my gym shorts because sometimes your abdomen area and your butt, it gets really cold. So you can just wear leggings, gym shorts, and the hiking, and the trekking pants. And that's literally more than enough for even minus seven, minus eight degrees, especially when you're walking. Yeah. And I took, I think, seven undies. Seven undies. Yeah. Oh, what if I had a diarrhea and if I was pooping in my pants? Ew, I mean. For guys, I think four undies is enough. And with the socks, we took, again, merino socks. Oh my God. Game changer. And I think our socks was, we both were having the same socks. Our socks was 70% merino wool. So I took three pair of socks, one for the evening when I'm chilling in the tea house and then two pair of socks for the entire trek. What did I take? I took four merino t-shirts, two long sleeves, also merino, everything merino. One night set, like a long sleeve night set, but I just wear, not with hiking. I took a legging, just a sport legging from Nike. Perfect. I walked with my leggings the whole trek. I also had a really light white trekking pants, which I sometimes put on over my leggings. But after five minutes of walking, you already want to get rid of it because it's way too warm. And I took one night leggings for in the evenings and yeah, that did all the job. And a fleece. Just one fleece is enough. You're almost never walking in your fleece. If you just have like a t-shirt, down jacket, enough. Like the first two to three minutes are maybe a bit cold, but after you get so warm that you take off your fleece, so one fleece more than enough. I took five pair of socks. Oh, because Mira's feet also stink. No, no, I don't know. I took five. But do you think you would have taken less or? Oh yeah. No. Yeah. I think I would have taken, what you said, two hiking, one evening sock. And yeah, my undies are super, super small. So I took like six or so, but they are like, takes this space. So and one time I washed them and I put them in the sun and like half an hour dry. So I could have taken that way less, but you need a really light white down jacket. Yeah. It's also a bit of an investment. The best investment you can make. You also had a down jacket, which is also a rain jacket. Yeah. I don't. Yeah. It's really, I love my down jacket. It has lots of gadgets. It's still really light white. And I had a down jacket from Patagonia, but it's not a rain jacket. It's kind of like drizzle proof, but not like crazy rain proof. Luckily it didn't rain, but I also got, I'll show you. Yeah. The most stupid thing. But I also got a big poncho in Thamel before leaving. And this is, I think, 500 grams and I had to carry this all the way. But it never rained. Oh, we forget something. What? The hand gloves. Oh, the hand gloves. Oh my gosh. So important. Like, oh, you cannot forget. And you don't take this little hand gloves. Yeah. I will take it. I'll also show you mine. Wait. Oh, we get excited about the hand gloves. So you want to show your hand gloves first? So this were my hand gloves. Like you really need this hand gloves where a wind cannot go through. Yeah. Because you don't need them every day, like just on the top, but if you need them, you really need them. You need good ones. You have to take them. And I had a one, these ones, like a really small ones. And then if it gets really crazy, so I can wear this on top of this. So these are all from Columbia. And next to the hand gloves, you also need a buff. Yeah. So you have this big as fancy buff. Different buff. So mine, I have a buff, which is like a, it has like a lot of wool. It has a lot of wool here. And then there's a big extension so I can cover my neck. I can cover my whole face. I can cover my mouth because you need a buff. You need a buff. I just had the normal buff, like just this. And I actually took two buffs and I got one buff from Merino wool. And in the Merino wool buff, you cannot breathe, like because you put it over your nose and you couldn't breathe through it. So that had no use. It was really stupid. So I would really say buy a buff from the brand Buff because they are an expert and can breathe through it. It keeps you warm. It's really, really nice stuff. And we also had one, the winter cap. Just a normal one from, I got it from Decathlon. You bought it there. I bought it there because I thought, no, I don't need a hat. No, you need it. You really need it. So I think now we are finally done with clothing. Do you reckon? Yeah. I'm just already checking what's in the next chapter. And next we're going to talk about the sleeping bags. Oh yeah. Oh, we did so much research. It should be obviously good at the temperatures up there and should be light if you're carrying your own thing. So yeah. I would say never buy a sleeping bag above one kilo. It's really not necessary and we will show you which one we have. After so much research, we got the Sea to Summit Trek TK and we love it. This is so good. And this is what? 990 grams? Like literally just under one kilo. Cabins where we're sleeping, it can get really cold in the night. So of course you need a sleeping bag first of all. Mostly you don't sleep straight in your sleeping bag. You always have to use some kind of liner to keep your sleeping bag clean. And we took a Thermolite liner and this also gives some heat. This one is 200. It was more than enough. I think around 270 or so. Oh, 275. 275 grams. But this was so good. We use this as a base layer, then sleeping bag. And if it's really cold, then we can just use a blanket. Toiletries. So I just took a brush, a toothpaste and half a soap. Oh yeah. That's it. Medicine. Mira packed my medicine for me. I did a little goodie baggie for him. Yeah, so you have to explain. Yeah, toiletries. Of course you just take the toiletries you use, like toothbrush and all that. What's really, really important is to take sunscreen. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah, like we saw people burn that much that it was almost, it looked so painful, you know. I had sunscreen special for my face and a sunscreen for my body. But you're wearing that much clothes all the time that you almost don't use that much for your body. So you can just take really, really small ones. Yeah. And we also had the lip sunscreen. Oh yeah. Lip sunscreen and Vaseline. Like in the evenings you want to put Vaseline all the time because of course everything is really dry. During the day we put like the lip with also SPS 50. Medicines. Medicines. Yeah. Should I show you how much medicines I had in the end? It's funny. Oh my god, yeah. So I got sick. I got food poisoning and I got all other dramas. In the end I had so many medicines. Oh my god. Oh, I didn't notice that. I just want to say the Ziploc baggies are really handy because you close them. Yeah, there are pharmacies, but not really high up anymore. So if you know that you're sensitive for, I don't know, for an allergic or something, just take that with you. But you can always buy the proper medicines in Namche and I think Namche was also one. And for sure take painkillers. You will get a headache. I think everyone will get a headache at one point. Painkillers are really important. Diarrhea pills are really important because I got food poisoning of course, but a lot of other people also got problems with that. What else? Oh yeah, and if you of course get diarrhea, you want to have some, yeah, we took ORS, but in the end if you're feeling sick already, like the last thing you want to drink is ORS. Oh, that's disgusting. So yeah, just take, I don't know, just take some logic stuff. Yeah, we also had the tablets, the, not ORS, but the electrolytes tablets. Oh, electrolytes tablets, yeah, and that is really, really nice and don't buy them on the track. You really have to buy them in your home country because the ones they sell here, that is really disgusting, really disgusting. We use AquaTabs to clean our water, so we could drink the water from the tabs. I think 90% of the people were buying bottled water, all the plastic waste, like just get AquaTabs, one AquaTab in water, you can buy everywhere the water, so yeah, I would really recommend to do that. And you can buy it here, not already, yeah, in Kathmandu. And bandage, and those little bandage for your blisters, yeah, so those are also really important. And that's it, and you can almost buy it on the track. At one point, you can take a shower at a few points, but at one point it gets too cold, you really don't want to take a shower, it's too cold, really, and baby wipes are a lifesaver then. Yeah, so Mira took two packets and I took one packet, I think for guys one packet is more than enough. Even for me, one would be enough, but we were planning first to do a longer track, but because of circumstances, we couldn't do it. But just for Everest, I think one packet is enough, which has what, 60 lights, something like that is fine. And now we're going to move to the others, like the extra little things which you would think that, oh shit, I should have taken that. Yeah, and that is a headlamp, Adi didn't have it. I never took a headlamp. No, but he had his phone, but you take a headlamp, really, sometimes in the end we didn't have that light, electricity went off, and it's just really handy to have a headlamp. Another really important thing, like you walk of course a lot of times a day, but there's also a lot of chill time, and just sitting there is a bit boring, so you want to have something to do. So I took my e-reader, you also took an e-reader, a lot of other people they took cards or Uno. I would really recommend something like that, because you don't want to use your phone when you are at those teahouses, because when you go higher up, the more you use your phone, the more you have to charge it, and then you have to pay for it, and then you have to pay for the Wi-Fi, and it's a lot of drama, a lot of things to worry about. Hiking sticks, yes. I think 99% of the people are using hiking sticks. Yeah, it's going to save your knees. And it will, yeah, it's just like health-wise, just take hiking sticks, it's, yeah, you just need them. And of course, a quick dry towel, because you can go to a shower sometimes. Toilet paper. Should we just explain a little bit about the toilet situation? Like there are Western toilets, there are. If you come higher, there are also more Asian toilets, and at one point, the Western toilets get so dirty that you want to use the Asian toilets. Yeah, so better practice your squats, deep squats. You can talk a bit about food as well. We just took like a few trekker bars, and we bought Snickers on the way, and I saw other people who had porters, of course, could take more, they had a lot of snacks, candy, stuff, and yeah, it looked really nice and tempting sometimes, but. But I think it's a bit of overkill, you don't want to take it, yeah. You really don't have to. There's enough food there, you really don't. Enough good food. Good food, yeah. You really don't have to take that much of snacks or so. Yeah, and we also found some really nice cafes and stuff where you can just go and chill like really, really good quality food. So if you're carrying your backpack yourself, like just three to four bars is more than enough. Yeah. Really. I got the Nalgene water bottle, and I always, when I see other people, I always saw them wearing, taking this one, so I'm like, what is that with that brand? And now I bought one myself, and now I understand it. And then the last thing, the things we didn't take, and we wish we would have taken, would have taken. For me, bouillon, like I was of course sick, like this bouillon, this muggy, muggy things. You know, just the sticks with like a little bit of soupy, soup. You know, I really regret that I didn't take any bouillon or so, because when I was sick, like the over-rest, you have to drink that with cold water, was just disgusting. And I was really just craving for drinking bouillon all day. So regret it. I still don't know what it is. It's just salty, like a soup. Oh, really? It's how they make soup with bouillon. They put it here. No, yeah. How it looks. It's little sticks. Because I'm also curious. Yeah, it's, I really wish I would have taken that. And also teabags, because like you can order, of course, tea and coffee there, is not the cheapest, but you can also buy just a liter of hot water, and if you have your own teabags, you can drink way more tea, you know, and you have to drink, so it makes it a bit easier. This little baggie, you know, just take a little Ziploc baggie with some vitamins, because although the food is really good on the trek, there are not a lot of nutritionists, no fruits, not that much veggies. So I was really happy I took this. Oh, yeah, I should have taken that. Yeah, that's the thing I miss. It's so small. And multivitamins and fish oil, because we are vegetarians, so we need more things in our body. It makes you feel a bit more healthy on the trek. So yeah, I think in total, our backpacks, obviously, we are assuming that you are not going to be doing with the camera gear and tripod. So without all those things, with a full bottle of water, I think our backpacks would have weighted around 10 kilos, like 8 to 10, somewhere between 8 to 10 kilos. And with our camera gear, mine was quite heavy, like around 15, and Meera's was around 13.5 or so. And also one more thing, if you have a camera, we have a really nice clip from Peak Design. Oh, Peak Design! The Peak Design clip. Wow, wow, wow. It's, yeah. It's a game changer. I see so many people having their backpack and also having a camera strap hanging here. It's going to break your neck. Yeah, but also like even a camera bag hanging here. And it was like going everywhere and like, man, just invest in this Peak Design thing. You can click your camera on it. We're going to link in the description. It's really cool. And you can see in our videos as well that I am carrying the camera, my whole video camera and the mic here never falls off. And Meera carried her photo camera, like it never falls off. And it's also a little bit, it takes off the weight from the back, you know, instead of using. More balance. Yeah, it's really nice. We hope that you enjoyed the video. And if you haven't watched our videos from Everest Base Camp, go here or here somewhere we're going to put it. Or we also put it in the description below. And we are in Kathmandu for two days, because why not? Yeah, it's the perfect place to recover and yeah, food, of course, that's like a food heaven here. There are so many nice cafes and restaurants. So we're going to be doing a little food tour because I think we lost a little bit of weight. That's what everybody's saying. So yeah, that's the good excuse for us to do some food tour. Yeah. So that's the next video. What's going to come after this video or maybe it has already come. You would know. So thank you. Thanks for your time. And we really wish you good luck for the Everest Base Camp. We are sure you're going to love it. It's pretty. It's so beautiful. And yeah, if you have any questions, please reach out to us on our Instagram or comment down below. And we see you in the next one. Yeah. 